Unity. It is often so elusive in political, religious, social, racial, and financial circles.
We love the amazing unity that we experience as a global brotherhood. No matter the country,
one's background or former beliefs, it is amazing that around the world we have unity
of thought.
So speaking hundreds of languages, there is one singular sound or unified message that
is being preached. In fact, Romans 10, 17, and 18 says,
So faith follows the thing heard. In turn, what is heard is through the word about Christ.
But I ask, they did not fail to hear, did they? Why, in fact, into all the earth, their
sound went out and to the ends of the inhabitor, their message. That is amazing. Millions
believe in exactly the same based on the word about Christ. One singular sound goes out.
That is unity of belief. Some may say unity of belief, your brainwashed. Well, we do agree
that our thinking has been washed clean from the complicated doctrines that have evolved
since Jesus walked the earth. However, the unity of mind results from a thorough study
of the Scriptures. It is a matter of learning God's Word and separating His teachings
out from the many doctrines that have been introduced by human thinking. When a classroom
full of students take a math course like algebra, at the end of the class, no one accuses
them of being brainwashed when they all end up united in their understanding. They simply
learn the math accurately and put it to use. But it is one thing to be united in thinking
and yet another to be united in spirit as a brotherhood. Going back to a math class,
at the end of the course, all are united in thought. They learned algebra, but that does
not mean they all like each other. They may have petty rivalry or outright prejudice
against some of their classmates. When we learn the truth from God's Word, we become united,
not only in thinking, but also in spirit with our brothers around the world. Even if
we had deep-seated prejudice in our hearts before studying with Jehovah's Witnesses, it
begins to melt away when learning the truth. Why is that? You will notice, as we read in Ephesians
chapter 4, that godly qualities are learned and perceived. The bad traits we might have
had before have to be unlearned. And Jehovah's Holy Spirit helps mold our personality to match
more closely the beautiful qualities mentioned here in Ephesians 4. Starting with verse
1, the Apostle Paul says, therefore, I, the prisoner in the Lord, appealed to you to walk
worthily of the calling with which you were called, with all humility and myoness and
patience, putting up with one another in life, earnestly endeavoring to maintain the oneness
of the Spirit in the anointing bond of peace. One body there is, and one spirit, just as
you were called to the one hope of your calling. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God
and Father of all, who is overall and through all and in all. My that is unity, isn't it?
All of those fine qualities reflect the personality of Jesus, perfect. He was unspoiled by the ingrained
hatred and prejudices that we may have been exposed to. So is it easy to curb ingrained
prejudices? No, it is not that easy. It would be good if it was, but it isn't. It is a process.
Sometimes we show the right spirit on the outside, but inside we are still struggling to
cultivate that true unity deep in our heart. Do we have a Bible example that makes clear that
this is a process that we must work our way through? Yes, there is one. In Galatians chapter 2.
Here is Seifas, who was usually called Peter, though Jewish by birth had learned from Jesus not
to be partial. For many years he has accepted non-Jewish fellow worshippers. He associated with them.
He ate meals together with them, but was there still a residue of prejudice within him? It seems so. His
reactions may have even come as a surprise to Peter himself. Regulation chapter 2 verses 11 through
14. And it says, however, when Seifas came to Antioch, I resisted him face to face because he was
clearly in the wrong. For before certain men from James arrived, he used to eat with people of
the nations. But when they arrived, he stopped doing this and separated himself, fearing those of
the circumcised class. The rest of the Jews also joined him in putting on this pretense,
so that even Barnabas was led along with them in their pretense. But when I saw that they were not
walking in step with the truth of the good news, I said to Seifas, before them all, if you, though
your Jew, live as the nations do and not as Jews do, how can you compel people of the nations
to live according to Jewish practice? What happened to Peter? Fear man caused his
former traits of prejudice to resurface, and it was contagious, affecting other Jewish men
around him. In fact, the verse said, even Barnabas was led along with them. Barnabas was a very
warm hearted, generous person. His name even means son of comfort. If Peter and Barnabas could succumb
to this kind of behavior based on their childhood training, we need to be very careful.
For a period of time, it may take a conscious effort on our part to maintain unity with our
brothers and sisters of varying cultures or races. Was Peter able to fully eradicate any residual
form of prejudice from his being? It seems he was. Turned now to 1 Peter 1. About 10 years after he
shunned the non-Jewish Christians, Peter was inspired to write these words, verse 22.
Now that you have terrified yourselves by your obedience to the truth with unhypocritical,
brotherly affection as the result, love one another intensely from the heart. Learning what is
right and then consistently doing what is right is a process. We learn the truth gradually.
We soon have unity of mind and thinking. However, in time, we purify ourselves. How?
The verse said by our obedience to the truth. And did you notice Peter says with unhypocritical
brotherly affection, not the way he acted ten years or so earlier, he even said to love one
another intensely from the heart deep inside. We would have love for all in our brotherhood without
even a twinge of prejudice. Please turn back to Ephesians chapter 4. How does this process of
changing work? Look at verse 17. So this is what I say and bear witness to in the Lord,
that you should no longer go on walking just as the nations also walk in the futility of their
minds. It makes clear that we need to change our thinking, our minds, and what follows this unity
of thinking. Verse 22 through 24, you were taught to put away the old personality that conforms to
your former course of conduct and that is being corrupted according to the deceptive, it's
deceptive desires. And you should continue to be made new in your dominant mental attitude and
should put on the new personality that was created according to God's will in true righteousness
and loyalty. Our very personality changes because of our new dominant mental attitude.
The beautiful thing is that this process is at work in millions of Jehovah's Witnesses worldwide.
And even though some of us may still be working on this kind of unity deep inside,
this love already shows on the outside as we mingle with our brothers from all over the world.
Psalm 133, verse 1 says it right, how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to dwell together
in unity.